hey this is precious tall Walker and
you're watching mind your decisions in
front of you are two fair dice one is a
seven sided dice with faces numbered
negative 3 negative 2 negative 1 0 1 2
and 3 the other is an 11 sided dice with
faces numbered from negative 5 to 5 that
is the integers from negative 5 to 5 you
pick a dice and I will get the other one
we will roll together and the person
with the larger number wins if the two
dice show the same number we will roll
again until someone wins which dice
should you pick if you want to maximize
your chance of winning now you can also
solve this problem for the generalized
case where one dice has integer sides
going from negative end to end and the
other dice has integer sides going from
negative m to M I want to mention the
source I adapted this problem from a
post on puzzling Stack Exchange finally
just a little bit of trivia according to
the oxford dictionaries historically
dice is the plural of die but in modern
Standard English dice is both the
singular and the plural throw the dice
could mean a reference either one or
more than one dice so can you figure it
out give this problem a try and when
you're ready keep watching the video for
a solution
so we'll get started by writing the
sample space the seven sided dice could
show any of the following seven numbers
the 11 sided dice can show any of the
following eleven numbers and these will
be with equal chance so we have a total
of seven times 11 which equals 77
equally likely possibilities now of
these seven possibilities will be ties
in which the game is a draw
so we're going to exclude this because
the game does not end on these you in
fact roll again
this leaves 70 game ending rolls now
imagine the seven sided dice rolls a 1
and the 11 sided dice rolls a negative 4
1 is larger than negative 4 so this will
be a win for the 7 sided dice in fact
all of these outcomes to the left of
this diagonal will be a win for the 7
sided dice this is a total of 35 game
winning outcomes for the 7 sided dice
all of the possibilities to the right of
the diagonal will be wins for the 11
sided dice and this will be a total of
35 game winning outcomes for the 11
sided dice so we'll put this together
the probability that 7 wins will be it's
35 game winning outcomes divided by 270
outcomes in which the game ends and
that's exactly the same as the
probability that the 11 sided dice wins
and 35 over 70 is equal to 50% so the
two are equal to each other each dice
has an equal chance of winning
furthermore this is true in the general
case as well we can imagine the same
sort of table where we have the rolls of
the n dice and the rolls of the M dice
now if n is less than M there will be n
possibilities in which the two rolls are
equal and these will be re rolls and
will exclude these possibilities every
outcome to the left of this diagonal
will be a game winning outcome for the
end
and every outcome to the right of this
diagonal will be a game-winning outcome
for the dice in fact there'll be a
one-to-one correspondence between these
outcomes in the general case the n dice
wins for all pairs I comma J such that I
is greater than J but for every such
pair there is an outcome negative I come
in negative J which must be a win for
the M dice this is because negative J
will be greater than negative I
similarly every winning outcome for the
M dice can be paired with a win for the
n dice by the same mapping where I comma
J goes to negative I comma negative J
hence there's a bijection between the
winning outcomes for each dice
so each dice must have the same 50%
chance of winning the game is fair in
the general case did you figure it out
thanks for watching
these math videos which can be watched
for free on YouTube inspire and build
confidence for people around the world
and they have over 800 million views
please subscribe for free to get the
news videos and email me a puzzle or
math topic presh and mind your decisions
calm if you so choose you can check out
my merchandise which is listed on
teespring you can check out my books
which are listed in the video
description and you can support me on
patreon for exclusive rewards thanks for
watching and thanks for your support